# intelligent_chatbot_with_scraping
Overview
This repository contains the codebase for an Intelligent Chatbot With Scraping, designed to interact with users and external entities to achieve specific goals. The chatbot analyzes user queries, retrieves relevant information, and generates appropriate responses. It also allows users to provide feedback on the accuracy and helpfulness of responses, which can be used for further analysis and improvement. Additionally, the chatbot system enables the administrator to manage unanswered queries, update the dataset, train the chatbot model, and maintain the security of their account.

For more you can check out [here](https://fsefuwan.netlify.app/)

**Technologies Used**

Front-end: React
Back-end: Flask (Python) and Node.js (JavaScript)
Database: MySQL

## Features

- **Real-Time Data Retrieval:** Access up-to-date information from the web. Our chatbot seamlessly scrapes data from websites to keep you informed.

- **Interactive Conversations:** Engage in meaningful conversations. Powered by NLP, our chatbot understands context and delivers relevant responses.

- **User Feedback Collection:** Share your feedback to help us improve. Your insights drive the chatbot's continuous development.

- **Unanswered Query Reporting:** The chatbot intelligently reports unanswered queries to administrators, enabling constant improvement.

- **Admin Dashboard:** Administrators have full control. Monitor interactions, review feedback, and manage the chatbot's performance.

- **Broken Link/Issue Reporting:** Report issues for prompt resolution, ensuring a seamless user experience.

- **Easy Data Addition and Training:** Admins can expand the chatbot's knowledge base via a user-friendly GUI, maintaining accurate responses.


**Getting Started**

To deploy and run the Intelligent Chatbot, follow these steps:
1. Clone the repository to your local machine by using go to project directories`git clone https://github.com/fsefu/intelligent_chatbot_with_scraping && cd intelligent_chatbot_with_scraping`
   
2. Set up the flask back-end server:
   - Navigate to the 'backendFlask' directory and install the required Python packages using `pip install -r requirements.txt`.
   - Run the Flask server using python app.py.

### Importing safedb.sql into Your Database

To set up the database for the SafeDB project, follow these steps:

a. **Access Your Database:**

   Open your preferred database management tool (e.g., MySQL Workbench).

b. **Import the SQL File:**

   a. In MySQL Workbench, go to the "Server" menu and select "Data Import."
   b. Choose the "Import from Self-Contained File" option.
   c. Select the downloaded `safedb.sql` file and follow the import prompts.

c. **Verify Import:**

   Check your database to ensure that the `safedb` database and its tables have been created successfully.

That's it! You've successfully imported the `safedb.sql` file into your database.


3.  Set up the node back-end server:
   - Navigate to the 'backendNode' directory and install the required Node packages using `npm install`.
   - Run the Node server using `nodemon index.js`.
   - Create .env file inside this folder and add this:
   ```

      DB_HOST = 127.0.0.1
      DB_USER = your database user
      DB_PASSWORD= database password
      DB_NAME= your database name
      TOKEN_KEY = your token key
      
      EMAIL_USERNAME=email for sending forgotten password
      EMAIL_PASSWORD=password generated by google workspace 
   ```
   to get more about Gmail authentication in NodeJS [here](https://developers.google.com/gmail/api/reference/rest).
   
4. Set up the React front-end server:
   - Navigate to the 'frontend' directory and install the required Node packages using `npm install` or `yarn`.
   - Run the React server using `npm start` or `yarn start`.

**Project Structure:**
```
- backendFlask
  - data
  - models
  - status
  - trained
  - trainedJson

- backendNode
  - config
  - middleware
  - routers

- frontend
  - public
    - images
  - src
    - components
      - Answer
      - Card
      - Cards
      - CustomerReview
      - Dialog
      - inputField
      - Login
      - MainDash
      - Profiles
      - Query
      - Recovery
      - RigtSide
      - Table
      - Time
      - Updates
    - Data
    - imgs

```

## Visit My Website

If you want to know more about me and check out my other projects, you can visit my website [here](https://fsefuwan.netlify.app/).

